hi everyone uh welcome to the ipfs
uh core implementations weekly sync for
monday the 28th of september 2020.
i am making brain i will be your host uh
we are going to go through our
high priority initiatives other
initiatives q a
parking lot that kind of thing it's
going to be awesome we're going to find
out all the fun stuff that's going on in
ipfs now
so to kick us off um upcoming ship
releases has anybody shipped anything
no cool all right well maybe next week
uh uh pinning services any updates on
the pinning service
so the update here is from me at least
the ipfs client is like fully
implemented
and the only thing we're blocked on is
trying to figure out how
to start um
andreus's mock uh
prototype pinning service so we can test
the client against it
so it's like circle ci tab type issues
that's it
yep we shipped i'm not
i'm not sure if i mentioned that last
week but we've shipped a small
um patch release of the spec
when we uh renamed some fields uh
just to have this automatically
generated client
uh more like ergonomics of that client
more developer friendly but it does not
change
the format on the wire so it's backwards
compatible
with any pre-existing clients
yeah i think that's it who i forgot to
mention
i shipped a thing i shipped an update to
the iphone's npm registry mirror which
is now using the latest version of chase
ipfs and it's currently rebuilding the
enormous sharded directory of all of npm
um check back in a month or something
um anyway so uh moving on the ed25519
default keys
um
rydal your name is down against that
uh yeah i kind of put updates
on uh on the subdomain gateway
section but let me copy here as well
i've updated the docs for subdomain
gateway to include
some code examples and best practices
that
include the reality of go ipfs 0.7 which
uses
uh those keys as the default
uh so now it should be more clear how to
use them in some in the subdomain
context to load websites
basically
sakai removal uh neither a dean or jacob
here i mean that went in uh 0.7 of um
go rpfs there's a pr open against joe's
ipfs
which i'm going to merge later this week
there you go and man michael
sorry sorry sorry
no problem
um yeah so i would like to i would like
to get the
typescript stuff in this week to jsipfs
and then hopefully ship that at the end
of the week and so that will go out with
circo removal
um that is that
uh no one here from
yeah i just listened to like ollie and
his daughter like
playing computers for like 20 minutes i
think he thought he was muted as well
well that sounds lovely though it was
very cute it was very
cute i can't wait to open my computer
my daughter that sounds great
um yeah no update for rust js improved
discoverability and connectivity
hey so regarding the first part of it
the auto relay
which is the task that is mostly then by
now
last week jacob reviewed and we got
merged the self-signed peer hackers
update when uh basically we bought
we get mine to do a relay
who announces our address on the matter
and
then we do the identify push to a toll
appears that we are connected to
saying that yeah we have this new peer
this new address that you
can dial us or announce to other
of your friends if you like so yeah
with this uh i unblocked the fall the
follow-up pr
which basically is to find other relays
on the network
for now this is only using delegated
content routing
and yeah this is also ready for the view
jacob will be out this week so
i hope that in the next week i can get
it merchant
uh going to the follow follow-up
which will be uh we'll want to not
announce that the local addresses which
is a thing that we currently do
and it has also some other scenarios
that
has been problematic for users
in the browser for example so for this
week i want to
create a proposal for how will we do
this
uh announcing addresses in the context
of
local local addresses or no local
artists because
there might be some use cases where
people might want to announce local
addresses for example if you are
on a local network uh and so basically
my plan
will be to only allow notes to
announce local addresses if explicitly
configured
in the liberty configuration but yeah i
will
need to think a little bit more about
this and create a proposal
so last week i didn't have time to get
to
the connection manager overall epic so
no update on that front
and regarding the rendezvous uh i
basically got back to it
last week i refreshed the open pr that i
had to use the sign peer records
that finally we got released on
lipid2029
and i also uh refactored it to use
win tight arrays which we also did in
the elephant 0.29
uh and yeah so my goal for the
rendezvous is to have
during this week uh we are ready for
review so that
next week when jacob comes back he will
review the both the auto relay stuff
and the renew and with that i will also
start the integration of the libertp
discovery
api to leverage the rendezvous and the
content routing
as i mentioned for the auto relay and
yeah that's it for me
awesome uh why are you getting an update
a wild mark henderson has
has appeared um was there any
is there any update on rust ipfs yeah uh
it's pretty significant update
uh the 0.2 crate has been released
to crates.i o so it's officially
official
um a lot of
um hold on ah
is that better yeah you're just a bit
quieter
all right sorry yeah um again the uh the
crate is out
and big ups to jonas and lucas for all
their work over the past few months
and that's really all it for me i'll
post a link in the notes
that is very exciting
okay i think that's the end of the high
priority initiatives uh on to the other
initiatives
um sub domain gateway i know you just
talked about it a little bit
uh in the context of the uh keys
is there anything further on that um the
only
uh the only change is uh clarification
that we
in in the previous version of docs we
did not uh highlight the fact that
some domain gateways are fully backwards
compatible with path gateways those new
docks
highlight the fact that you can just use
subdomain gateway as a drop-in
use slash ipfs or ipns
on the root domain and go ipfs will
automatically take care of converting
cid to
a case insensitive base
if it's if the produce cid is too long
it will use a base 36 which
makes longer keys fit in a dns label
so sort of like added some additional
context and best practices
to that but that's about it
cool um unix of sv 1.5
uh there's no update here
uh moving on to improving uh web ui file
ad
uh yeah i've been working on that i'm
putting final
ui touches on it and i should be done
soon hopefully today
[Music]
and the next item is also mine but i
have no updates for it
about the typescript support
um this one is mine decomposing the cli
and the core http
uh of ipfs so they're in separate
modules uh this is done
merged um not shipped sure it will ship
in the next release
so that's cool uh trying to bring mp195s
up to date so yes i updated the
registry mirror that's all deployed um
and it like the notable part of that is
that it has
libraries like shared modules with the
important ipfs project itself
um so i want to try and run that against
cod professional point seven so that we
can then enable that nci again as well
and hopefully breathe a bit more life
into that there've been some people on
uh the github reaper who have expressed
an interest in helping out so i
want to kind of get it into a point
where i'm like here you go and here's
the list of things that you need to do
uh that would be super cool um that is
that uh okay
that is the end of the other initiatives
um
moving on to designer review proposals
anybody got something they wanna
stick in a pillar and have examined in
my new detail
ah these sessions are so much fun
somebody want to design
something okay fine um blockers and
asks anybody blocked or need to ask
something
questions
hey i have a just a small thing uh to
the team
um now that the crate is out we're sort
of
pulling down the throttle on rust fps
work for now
so i'll probably not be joining the
calls
for a period of time but i am returning
to my natural habitat of orbitdb
and i know there's been a number of team
members that want to reach out
and talk about that too so please don't
hesitate to get in touch
and uh hopefully we'll be able to work
on something like that because i'm going
to be focusing on orbit a lot in the
coming weeks here
so that was a good time
thank you for i know dean was uh trying
to run
we wanted to break you guys about
running the orbit db test against
go ipfs 0.7 so i guess there'll be more
of that in the future
yes that is part of the that is in the
cards
excellent i do have a question
as far as the design is concerned one of
my upcoming
tasks is going to be looking at moving
pins into the data store
and i wanted to know if the design of
that is
how how much more review do we need we
need to re-examine that to make sure
that
uh that that is in fact what we want to
do and we have a good strategy for doing
that
so that's just bringing that up as an
issue that we may want to pay attention
to coming up here in the next week or so
okay i mean i guess yeah you'd um hash
that out with the team
um there's the pr to js ipfs that kind
of set out
the design for it and there's a lot of
back and forth between go team and the
js team
so that's kind of the design document i
suppose
and you can go from there all right
great thank you
okay uh so now the questions we can move
on to the parking lot
uh i got a quick not really a question
but like
uh invitation for a bike shot
so unix fs 1.5 was introduced in js ipfs
but it's still
not in go so it would be nice to figure
it out
how do we want to uh present those
additional
attributes in our ipld explorer
when you inspect a dark pb
right now it looks the same and you are
not able to tell
that modification time or
mode is different so
if you've got any idea how we should
represent that type
of metadata in ipld explorer there's a
issue linked in in the notes
cool please take a look at that oh you
could just implement unix of sv 1.5 and
go ipfs
which i guess wouldn't solve the problem
but like it would make the problem more
visible more pressure on the problem
exactly
cool if there's nothing else then this
has been
the one of the fastest uh call
implementation weekly things ever
um you get 10 minutes back um
thank you all for coming is anyone gonna
interrupt me here
no we're done amazing thank you all for
coming uh this has been the ipfs
confrontations weekly thing from monday
the 20th of september
see you all on the internet stay safe
everyone bye